.. _custom-user:

Custom user models
==================

When django-registration was first developed, Django's
authentication system supported only its own built-in user model,
``django.contrib.auth.models.User``. More recent versions of Django
have introduced support for `custom user models
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/topics/auth/customizing/#substituting-a-custom-user-model>`_.

Older versions of django-registration did not generally support custom
user models due to the additional complexity required. However,
django-registration now can support custom user models. Depending on
how significantly your custom user model differs from Django's
default, you may need to change only a few lines of code; custom user
models significantly different from the default model may require more
work to support.


Overview
--------

The primary issue when using django-registration with a custom
user model will be
:class:`~django_registration.forms.RegistrationForm`. ``RegistrationForm`` is
a subclass of Django's built-in ``UserCreationForm``, which in turn is
a ``ModelForm`` with its model set to
``django.contrib.auth.models.User``. The only changes made by
django-registration are to apply the reserved name validator
(:class:`django_registration.validators.ReservedNameValidator`) and make the
``email`` field required (by default, Django's user model makes this
field optional; it is required in ``RegistrationForm`` because two of
the three built-in workflows of django-registration require an
email address in order to send account-activation instructions to the
user). As a result, you will always be required to supply a custom
form class when using django-registration with a custom user
model.

In the case where your user model is compatible with the default
behavior of django-registration, (see below) you will be able to
subclass ``RegistrationForm``, set it to use your custom user model as
the model, and then configure the views in django-registration to use
your form subclass. For example, you might do the following (in a
``forms.py`` module somewhere in your codebase -- do **not** directly
edit django-registration's code):

.. code-block:: python

    from django_registration.forms import RegistrationForm

    from mycustomuserapp.models import MyCustomUser

    
    class MyCustomUserForm(RegistrationForm):
        class Meta(RegistrationForm.Meta):
            model = MyCustomUser

You will also need to specify the fields to include in the form, via
the ``fields`` declaration.

And then in your URL configuration (example here uses the HMAC
activation workflow):

.. code-block:: python

    from django.conf.urls import include, url

    from django_registration.backends.hmac.views import RegistrationView
    
    from mycustomuserapp.forms import MyCustomUserForm


    urlpatterns = [
        # ... other URL patterns here
        url(r'^accounts/register/$',
            RegistrationView.as_view(
                form_class=MyCustomUserForm
            ),
            name='registration_register',
        ),
        url(r'^accounts/', include('django_registration.backends.hmac.urls')),
    ]
    
If your custom user model is not compatible with the built-in
workflows of django-registration (see next section), you will
probably need to subclass the provided views (either the base
registration views, or the views of the workflow you want to use) and
make the appropriate changes for your user model.


Determining compatibility of a custom user model
------------------------------------------------

The built-in workflows and other code of django-registration do as
much as is possible to ensure compatibility with custom user models;
``django.contrib.auth.models.User`` is never directly imported or
referred to, and all code in django-registration instead uses
``settings.AUTH_USER_MODEL`` or
``django.contrib.auth.get_user_model()`` to refer to the user model,
and ``USERNAME_FIELD`` when access to the username is required.

However, there are still some specific requirements you'll want to be
aware of.

The two-step :ref:`HMAC <hmac-workflow>` requires that your user model
have the following fields:

* ``email`` -- a textual field (``EmailField``, ``CharField`` or
  ``TextField``) holding the user's email address. Note that this
  field is required by ``RegistrationForm``, which is a difference
  from Django's default ``UserCreationForm``.

* ``is_active`` -- a ``BooleanField`` indicating whether the user's
  account is active.

You also *must* specify the attribute ``USERNAME_FIELD`` on your user
model to denote the field used as the username. Additionally, your
user model must implement the ``email_user`` method for sending email
to the user.

:ref:`The one-step workflow <one-step-workflow>` requires that your
user model set ``USERNAME_FIELD``, and requires that it define a field
named ``password`` for storing the user's password (it will expect to
find this value in the ``password1`` field of the registration form);
the combination of ``USERNAME_FIELD`` and ``password`` must be
sufficient to log a user in. Also note that ``RegistrationForm``
requires the ``email`` field, so either provide that field on your
model or subclass ``RegistrationForm``.

If your custom user model defines additional fields beyond the minimum
requirements, you'll either need to ensure that all of those fields
are optional (i.e., can be ``NULL`` in your database, or provide a
suitable default value defined in the model), or you'll need to
specify the full list of fields to display in the ``fields`` option of
your ``RegistrationForm`` subclass.
