.. _security:


Security guide
==============

.. important:: **Reporting security issues**

   If you believe you have found a security issue in django-registration,
   please do *not* use the public GitHub issue tracker to report it. Instead,
   you can `contact the author privately <https://www.b-list.org/contact/>`_ to
   report the issue.

Anything related to users or user accounts has security implications and
represents a large source of potential security issues. This document is not an
exhaustive guide to those implications and issues, and makes no guarantees that
your particular use of Django or django-registration will be safe; instead, it
provides a set of recommendations, and explanations for why django-registration
does certain things or recommends particular approaches. Using this software
responsibly is, ultimately, up to you.

Before continuing with this document, you should ensure that you've read and
understood `Django's security documentation
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/#security>`_.  Django provides a good
overview of common security issues in the general field of web development, and
an explanation of how it helps to protect against them or provides tools to
help you do so.

You should also ensure you're following Django's security recommendations. You
can check for many common issues by running::

    python manage.py check --tag security

on your codebase.


Recommendation: use the two-step activation workflow
----------------------------------------------------

Two user-signup workflows are included in django-registration, along with
support for writing your own. If you choose to use one of the included
workflows, :ref:`the two-step activation workflow <activation-workflow>` is the
recommended default.

The activation workflow provides a verification step -- the user must click a
link sent to the email address they used to register -- which can serve as an
impediment to automated account creation for malicious purposes.

The activation workflow generates an activation key which consists of the new
account's username and the timestamp of the signup, verified using `Django's
cryptographic signing tools
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.11/topics/signing/>`_ which in turn use
`the HMAC implementation from the Python standard library
<https://docs.python.org/3/library/hmac.html>`_. Thus, django-registration is
not inventing or building any new cryptography, but only using existing/vetted
implementations in an approved and standard manner.

Additionally, the activation workflow takes steps to ensure that its use of
HMAC does not act as an `oracle
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oracle_attack>`_. Several parts of Django use
the signing tools, and third-party applications are free to use them as well,
so django-registration makes use of the ability to supply a salt value for the
purpose of "namespacing" HMAC usage. Thus an activation token generated by
django-registration's activation workflow should not be usable for attacks
against other HMAC-carrying values generated by the same installation of
Django.


Restrictions on user names: reserved names
------------------------------------------

By default, django-registration applies a list of reserved names, and does not
permit users to create accounts using those names (see
:class:`~django_registration.validators.ReservedNameValidator`). The default
list of reserved names includes many names that could cause confusion or even
inappropriate access. These reserved names fall into several categories:

* Usernames which could allow a user to impersonate or be seen as a site
  administrator. For example, ``"admin"`` or ``"administrator"``.

* Usernames corresponding to standard/protocol-specific email addresses
  (relevant for sites where creating an account also creates an email address
  with that username). For example, ``"webmaster"``.

* Usernames corresponding to standard/sensitive subdomain names (relevant for
  sites where creating an account also creates a subdomain corresponding to the
  username). For example, ``"ftp"`` or ``"autodiscover"``.

* Usernames which correspond to sensitive URLs (relevant for sites where user
  profiles appear at a URL containing the username). For example, ``"contact"``
  or ``"buy"``.

It is strongly recommended that you leave the reserved-name validation enabled.


Restrictions on user names and email addresses: Unicode
-------------------------------------------------------

By default, django-registration permits the use of a wide range of Unicode in
usernames and email addresses. However, to prevent some types of
Unicode-related attacks, django-registration will not permit certain specific
uses of Unicode characters.

For example, while the username ``"admin"`` cannot normally be registered (see
above), a user might still attempt to register a name that appears visually
identical, by substituting a Cyrillic "a or other similar-appearing character
for the first character. This is a `homograph attack
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IDN_homograph_attack>`_.

To prevent homograph attacks, django-registration applies the following rule to
usernames, and to the local-part and the domain of email addresses:

* If the submitted value is mixed-script (contains characters from multiple
  different scripts, as in the above example which would mix Cyrillic and Latin
  characters), and

* If the submitted value contains characters appearing in the Unicode Visually
  Confusable Characters file,

* Then the value will be rejected.

See :func:`~django_registration.validators.validate_confusables` and
:func:`~django_registration.validators.validate_confusables_email`.

This should not interfere with legitimate use of Unicode, or of
non-English/non-Latin characters in usernames and email addresses. To avoid a
common false-positive situation, the local-part and domain of an email address
are checked independently of each other.

It is strongly recommended that you leave this validation enabled.


Additional steps to secure user accounts
----------------------------------------

The scope of django-registration is solely the implementation of user-signup
workflows, which limits the ways in which django-registration alone can protect
your users. Other features of Django itself, or of other third-party
applications, can provide significant increases in protection.

In particular, it is recommended that you:

* Prevent the use of common passwords. You can catch some common passwords by
  enabling Django's
  :class:`~django.contrib.auth.password_validation.CommonPasswordValidator`,
  which uses a list of twenty thousand common passwords. A more comprehensive
  option is the password validator and other utilities from
  `pwned-passwords-django
  <https://pwned-passwords-django.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_, which checks
  against a database containing (as of mid-2018) over half a billion passwords
  found in data breaches.

* Use two-factor authentication via authenticator applications or hardware
  security keys (*not* SMS). The package `django-two-factor
  <https://django-two-factor-auth.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_ provides
  integration for two-factor authentication into Django's auth framework.
